# Model for Lyme Disease

Title: Bayesian Capture-Recapture model of vector-reservoir interaction in an ecological setting: a reservoir-targeted vaccine field study against Borrelia burgdorferi

Abstract: Lyme disease is a bacterial infection caused by \textit{Borrelia burgdorferi}, which is transmissible to humans by blood-meal of infected ticks. It is known that mice serve as the primary natural reservoir for the disease's transmission cycle, which ticks subsequently feed on to spread the infection. As a result, ticks are capable of transmitting the disease to people. In recent years, reservoir-targeted vaccines are emerging as an effective mean to control the spread of zoonotic and vector-borne diseases by tackling the issue at the source with the main goal of blocking the path of transmission to humans. In this work, we used a longitudinal study of a capture-recapture events in six field sites in the state of Maryland from 2020 to 2022, with white-footed mice and nymphal ticks as the species of interest. We implement a Bayesian longitudinal model to estimate the size of capturable subjects for each site as well as posterior distributions for different ecologic and immunopathologic parameters of interest such as the infection prevalence of \textit{Borrelia burgdorferi} over study period. When the outer surface protein A vaccine is being deployed in treatment sites, we found that the infection prevalences are reduced due to the oral bait immunizations, while the proportion of mice with protective levels of antibodies is increased. Results obtained from this work could help reduce the risk of human exposure to Lyme disease.
